MKT 102: Introduction To Business  3 Credit Units  
The scope of Business; the character of business from social-legal and economic perspectives. Forms of ownership, organization and management. Marketing, Production, Finance and Accounting functions, Government and business. The Social Responsibility of business, International business. Problems of Nigerian business enterprises.

MKT 201: Elements of Marketing 3 Credit Units
(Pre-requisite: Man 141)
Introduction: Marketing Definitions, Concept, Evolution, Role and Importance, the Marketing system; Market Analysis: The Marketing Environment, Buyer Behaviour, Market Segmentation; Market Measurement and Forecasting; Marketing Research; The Marketing Mix: The Product concept, Development and Life Cycle: Product Classification and Marketing Strategies, Pricing, Management of the Channels of Distribution; Promotion: Advertising, Personal Selling, Public Relations and Sales Promotion, Marketing of Professional Services; Appraising the Marketing Effort.

MKT 204: Introduction to Marketing Promotions 2 Credit Units
(Pre-requisites: MKT 201 & MKT 202)
The Role of Promotion in Marketing, Behaviour and Communication, Cultural and Social Conditions, Creativity in Promotion, Elements of the Promotion Mix, Personal Selling, Advertising, Sales Promotion, Publicity, Management of the Promotion Programme, Ethical and Legal Environments of Promotion in the Future, Budgeting for Promotion.

MKT 222: Business Communication 2 Credit Units
Meaning of Communication; Methods of Communication, Channels of Communication, Verbal Communication; Interviews, Discussions, Meetings.  The Personal Contact Approach; Order giving, Discipline, Reprimanding, etc. Use of Telephone; Qualities, size of paper, printing etc. Postal Communication:  Mail collection and distribution, messenger services, addressing, stamping and franking, mail box and pigeon holes.  Telecommunications terminology. Effective speaking, the art of listening, etc. Meetings and minutes writing. Writing of sales letters and sales reports, Post Office; equipment maintenance, cost, directories.

MKT 242: Cooperative Operations and Management 2 Credit Units
Overview of Cooperative Society to cover the Definition, Meaning and its basic Principles; Historical Development of Cooperative Society in Nigeria; Types of Cooperative Societies and Structure of Cooperative Organizations; Guidelines on the Establishment and Registration of Cooperative Society; Sources of Cooperative Finances, Role of Cooperatives in Economic Development; Role of Government in the development of Cooperative Movement; Problems and Prospects of Cooperative Organizations in Nigeria; and The Role, Objective and Membership of International Cooperative Alliance (ICA).

MKT 301: Nigerian Marketing System & Commercial Policy 2 Credit Units      
Marketing and Development. Traditional Marketing and its Development.  Mixed Marketing System.  Nigerian Marketing Institutions; Rural and Urban Markets, Commodity Boards, Cooperatives.  Channels of Product Distribution.  Pricing and Price Control  in Nigeria.  Resale price maintenance.  Sales Promotion.  Market Administration.  Trade Associations.  Marketing as a profession. Survey of Commercial Polices in Nigeria, Effects on Establishment of Commercial Tariffs, Foreign Exchange Regulations, Import Restrictions, Fiscal and Monetary Policies. Case studies.

MKT 321: Principles and Practice of Public Relations 3 Credit Units
(Pre-requisite: MKT 201)
Current Management and Functional Concepts of Public Relations. Public Relations Environment, Public Relations Functions and Objectives.  The publics of an Organization.  Opinion Formation, Press Relations, Special Events Management, development of Public Relations Department in an Organization, Professional Public Relations, Code of Ethics, the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR).  Case Studies.

MKT 322: Principles and Practice of Advertising 2 Credit Units
(Pre-requisites: MKT 201 & MKT 202)
Advertising and the Economics of Advertising Criticisms of Advertising; Advertising and the Economy, Advertising Ethics, Basic Principles and practice of Advertising, Approaches to the study of Advertising. AAPN Code of Ethics. Advertising Copy Writing and Slogans, Trade Marks, Trade Names, Brand Names, Advertising Organization and Management, Advertising and Mass Communication media. The future of Advertising. Case Studies

MKT 324: E- Business & Internet Marketing 2 Credit Units  
The scope of this course covers Concepts and Applications of E-media Marketing and Marketing Strategy. E-mail Marketing, affiliate Marketing, Using Social Media Tools such as Twitter, Podcasting and blogging, Using Facebook to Create a Fanpage. Creating and Maintaining Market Presence on the Internet, Cyber Marketing Origin, Meaning and Objectives, E- Commerce and  types of   E- Commerce such as B2B, B2C, B2B2C, Roles of Internet Marketing and the Limitations. The Internet and the Marketing mix, the Internet and E- Commerce, the Internet and E- Business,  the E- Customers and E- Tools,  Requirement for Electronic Marketing Operations.    The Internet – Definition and its Development, Features of the Internet Terminology. Developing an Internet Marketing Plan; Web Participants, Web Objectives; Developing and Maintaining a Website; Internet Marketing objectives. The Internet Customers and E- Tools Branding. E- Business, Types and Characteristics. Direct sales on the Internet, Branding on the Net, Direct Marketing on the Internet. Measuring the Effectiveness of the Internet.   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Internet. Obstacles to the Diffusion of Internet Trade, Requirements for Electronic Marketing Operations. The Future of Internet Marketing.  Case Studies.

MKT 331: Sales and Pricing Management 2 Credit Units
Sales Management and Pricing Management. Sales Management:  Under this, the course would dwell on Nature and scope of Sales Management  Functions, Objectives, Roles and Relationships between Sales Management and Marketing Management. Sales Management and Control,  Determining Sales Policies, formulating Personal selling strategy. Organizing the sales effort: the sales Executive jobs, the sales organization, Distributive Network Relations, Sales forecasting, and Sales force Management. Personnel Management in the selling field, Recruiting and Selecting Sales personnel, Planning and Conducting sales training programmes, Sales Techniques, Motivating the individual Sales person, Sales meeting and Sales Contest, Compensating Sales personnel, assigning sales personnel to Territories, Evaluating and Supervising Sales personnel, Controlling Sales Effort, The Sales Budget, Quotes, Sales Control and Analysis. Under Pricing Management, the course would cover the Definition, Objectives and Significance of Pricing Management; Pricing Strategies, Public Policy and Pricing, Pricing Policy and Influence on Sales, Determinants of Price, Price Structure and Administration,  Price Elasticity, Methods of Setting Price, Price Adjustment Strategies, Pricing Management and Marketing Elements.

MKT 332: Physical Distribution Analysis 2 Credit Units
(Pre-requisite: MKT 201)
Physical Distribution: Plant Capacity and Warehouse Facilities, Production Flow, Channel of Distribution, Inventory Handling and Control, Physical Distribution and Profit Planning. Elements of Iogistics. Analysis of Retail and Wholesale Institutions, Competition and Conflicts in Distribution Channels, Store and Warehouse Organization and Management, Modern Trends in Merchandising Methods. Case Studies.

MKT 351: Principles of Consumer Behaviour Analysis 2 Credit Units
(Pre-requisites:  PSY 101, MKT 201 and MKT 202)
Introduction: Role of the Consumer in Marketing, the Consumer perspectives and Viewpoints, Overview of Consumer Decision – Process  Behaviour; Group influence on Consumer: Culture Context of Consumer Behaviour, Social Stratification, Reference Group and sub- Culture Influences; The nature and influence of individuals: Predispositions, information processing, learning processing, evaluative criteria, attitudes, personality; Attitude change and Persuasive Communication: nature of communication, attitude change; Decision Processes: Problem Recognition Processes, Evaluation Process, Purchasing Processes, Post- Purchase Processes; Consumerism: Issues in Consumerism, Current Status of Consumer Behaviour Research.

MKT 372: Research Methods 3 Credit Units
(Pre-requisites: MKT 201, MAN 231)
Skills of scientific investigation, information gathering, analysis and interpretation in dealing with business and organizational behaviour problem in Nigeria; the art of problem identification and analysis; data gathering, analysis and report writing; the problem and prospects of business research in a seller’s market like Nigeria.

MKT 382: Service Marketing 2 Credit Units
General introductory Overview/conceptual under-pinning of Service Marketing; Nature and Scope of Service Marketing; Services vs. Physical Goods Economy; Services Product Characteristics; Service Marketing Mix; Service Marketing Environment; Nature and Dynamics of Consumer Behaviour in Service Marketing. The course would also explore: Strategies for Delivery Quality Services in the angle of Organizational/Employee Roles, Customer Roles and the Intermediary Channel Roles; the Interplay between Technology and Service Marketing and the Physical Evidence Landscapes in Service Marketing/Delivery; Rationale for appropriate pricing of Services and Strategies for Managing Service promise/opportunities etc.

MKT 404: Analysis for Business Decisions 2 Credit Units
Element of Decision Analysis, Types of Decision Situations, Decision Trees; Operational Research (OR) Approach to Decision Analysis, System and System Analysis; Modeling in OR, Simulation; Cases for OR Analysis, Mathematical Programming; Transportation Model, Assignment Model, Conflict Analysis and Game Theory, Project Management, Other OR Models: Inventory, Replacement, Line Balancing, Routing and Sequencing, and Search.

MKT 412: Product Development And Brand Management 2 Credit Units
The Concepts, Nature and Scope of New Product Planning, Development Process and Strategies, Product life Cycle Analysis; Product Acquisition, Product Evaluation, Product Adoption Process; Branding, Packaging and Labeling; Definitions, Purpose for and Usage of Branding, Packaging and Labeling; Branding Policy, Development and Strategy and the Legal Implications. Social Responsibilities of Branding and Packaging;The Position and Functions of a Product/Brand Manager, Brand and Business Building; Managing Brands and Product Relationship, Multi-Brand Portfolios, Managing Global Brands. Case Studies.

MKT 431: Retail and Wholesale Management 2 Credit Units
(Pre-requisites: MKT 201 & MKT 333)      
The Wholesale Function in Marketing, Organization for Wholesaling, Management Objectives and Strategies, Warehouse Organization and Management, Merchandise Management including Inventory Control Methods, Special Problems. The Retailing Function in Marketing, Organization for Retailing, the Retailing Environment. Management Objectives and Strategies, Merchandise Procurement, Display and Store Layout, Merchandise Management Including Inventory Control Methods, Special Problems.

MKT 434: Transportation Management 2 Credit Units
The economic function of transport in the economic development of a country. The supply and demand characteristics of transport; travel pattern and demand models. Concept of competition, cooperation and complementary among models. Economic characteristics of transport systems, speed, load factor, etc. Concepts of transport costs; cost estimating; standardized cost models and current costs. Commercial policy with regard to depreciation, substitution and utilization cross-subsidization and unremunerative services.

MKT 435: Logistics and Supply Chain Management 3 Credit Units
Meaning and Goals of Logistics and Supply Chain Management. Historical Growth of Logistics, Process and Functions of the Logistics System, the System of Materials, Logistics and Supply Chain goals Performance, Customer Service, Environmental Aspects of Logistics; Logistics and Supply chain Structure;  Product Structures, Material Supply structures, Material flow Structures in Production and Distribution Structures, Planning and Control of Logistics and Supply Chain System; Materials Management, Transportation Planning and Management, Information Systems for Logistics and Supply Chain Management.

MKT 451: Industrial Marketing 2 Credit Units
Survey of Nigerian Industries, Role of Industries in an economy, Types of Industries, Policies and strategies in Planning and Developing Products, Pricing, Promoting and Distributing Industrial Products, Researching Industrial Markets. Buyer-seller Relationship, Organization Buyer Behaviour. Case Studies.

MKT 452: Advanced Consumer Behaviour 2 Credit Units
Introductory review of relevant models necessary for the study of Consumer and Business buyer behavior; Consumer spending and Economic Behaviour; Ethnic, Racial and Religious subcultures influence on Consumer behavior; Gender, Age and Consumer identity; Organizational and household Decision Making; Consumer Behaviour and the environment; The Marketing Efforts on scared and profane Consumption; Global Consumer Culture; Key economic, Technological, Religious, Cultural and Diplomatic factors/considerations in consumer buying decisions. Case Study.

MKT 461: International Marketing 2 Credit Units
(Pre-requisite: MKT 201)
International Marketing Planning and Strategy, Criteria for Evaluating Foreign Markets, Developing and Marketing Products in Foreign Markets. Environmental Factors in International Marketing, Packaging, Insurance and Shipping Law in International Business. Banking and Finance in International Marketing, Exchange Control and Foreign Exchange Problems, Nigeria in International Business.

MKT 471: Marketing Management 3 Credit Units
(Pre-requisites: MKT 201, MKT 202)
Application of the fundamental Principles of Management to the Marketing Functions. The Organization, Planning, Control and Co-ordination of the Marketing Function. Organization of the Marketing plan, Coordination and Interaction of the Whole Marketing Function (Product, Physical Distribution, Pricing and Promotion), Marketing and Social Responsibility, Consumer Behaviour, etc.   Case Studies.

MKT 473: Ethical/Legal Aspects of Marketing    2 Credit Units
Sale of Goods, Main Legislation and Cases, Formation of Agency Agreements, Rights and Liabilities of Third Parties, Termination Torts, Patents, Trade – Marks, Copy-Rights; Outline of Main Procedures and Governing Legislation; Registration; Terms and Infringements, Carriage of Goods by Land, Sea and Air, Terms, Legal Protection, Liabilities, Contracts of Insurance; Negotiable Instruments; Commercial Associations Legislation on Food and Drugs, Price Control, Standards, Indigenization. Hire Purchase and Consumer Protection Laws. Cases  Studies.

MKT 475: Comparative Marketing Systems 2 Credit Units
(Pre-requisites: MKT 201 & 301)
Intra and inter-cultural Marketing Systems. Marketing in Selected Developed and Developing Nations such as United States of America, Soviet Union, India, Tanzania, Japan, Britain, Germany, Brazil and Egypt. Markets and Marketing Institutions in Developing Countries. Case Studies.

MKT 477: Professional Marketing Practice 2 Credit Units
Professional Ethics in Marketing, Code of Practice, Professional Association – Nigeria Marketing Association, Association of Advertising Practitioners on Nigeria (AAPN), the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations(NIPR), Code of Practice, Decrees Establishing the Advertising and Public Relations Council, Field Work Practice, Case Studies.

MKT 482: Hospitality and Tourism Marketing 2 Credit Units
Meaning and Objectives of Hospitality and Tourism Marketing; Place of Marketing in the hospitality industry;  Understanding the Market place and designing strategies for hospitality and tourism Marketing; Analysis of Hospitality and Tourism Marketing Environment; Services Characteristics of Hospitality and tourism Marketing; segmenting  targeting and positioning tourism Marketing; Marketing Mix for hospitality and Tourism Industry, Managing tourism marketing.  Case Studies

MKT 484: Social Marketing 2 Credit Units
Application of marketing in combating a wide range of social problems for the greater good/welfare of the citizenry/society. Discussions in the course are meant to cover a number of, but not limited to the following sub-areas: Conceptual Overview of the Social Marketing Paradigm, Broad Overview/scope of Social Marketing; Application of Marketing Principles to Social Causes; Social Marketing Variables/Mix; Social Marketing Constructs; Social Marketing Theories/Models; Planning and Executing Social Marketing Companies; Social Marketing Communications (SMM); Segmenting Social Marketing Audience and Composing Appropriate/suitable Social Marketing Communication for Segments; Evaluating/appraising Social Marketing Efforts/campaigns; Insights into Local/global Social Marketing Cases/campaign Executions, Case Studies. Students should be made to discuss/handle Hypothetical or Practical Social Marketing cases as part of their practical Demonstration or Continuous Assessment in the course.

MKT 490: Project 4 Credit Units
Developing Students’ skill in Analyzing and Writing Reports based on an empirical or library study of a specific subject matter or topic in any relevant area of Marketing or Administration and Management Studies. Students would present a Research based Report of not less than 2,000 words at the end of the session.